Oakmont Country Club
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
(Golf Shop Closing)
Original Date of Issue:  	7/16/2022
Created by:	Edward Kim
Approved by:	Jonathan Goglia

Background: This will cover every step on Golf Shop closing procedure

Purpose: To provide instruction on how to properly close the Golf Shop 

Procedure:
o	Double check and close out the tee sheet 30 mins prior to closing time
o	Restock gloves and golf balls display over the counter
o	Clean and wipe down the counter space with sanitizer wipe
o	Vacuum the golf shop and offices
o	Turn off all outside TVs and bring in the sound system
o	Close out the POS – All items below need to be filed labeled with correct day of the week
o	Print out ‘Sales By Payment Type Summary’ from Northstar (Back End)
o	Settle the Credit Card Machine
o	Print ‘Period Report’ under Shift Management (POS)
DO NOT CLOSE THE TERMINAL!!!
o	Print ‘Period Report’ under Shift Management
o	Fill out the Pro Shop End of Day Checklist
o	Place finished folder on Golf Shop Manager’s Desk Inbox
o	Print 5 copies of the tee sheets, giving one to the bag room, and the rest stay at the front counter (left side). 
o	Turn off all lights. 
o	Director of Golf Office, Assistant Professional’s Office, Grip Room, Golf Shop, Sunglasses Displays
o	Put all phones on DND (Do Not Disturb) mode
o	Throw away any cardboard boxes accumulated throughout the day
o	Double check Tee Times were populated
o	Double check if there’s any grips that need to be done.
o	If you find grips that need to be done, please email one of the Professionals working in the morning so it can be done right away in the morning.
o	Lock both entries to the Golf Shop from outside before leaving for the day

Oakmont Country Club
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
(Golf Shop Opening)
Original Date of Issue:  	7/16/2022
Created by:	Edward Kim
Approved by:	Jonathan Goglia

Background: This will cover every step on Golf Shop opening procedure
Purpose: You’re the first point of contact to any person walking into the golf shop.  Customer service is your number one priority.  Golf operations and merchandising will come second.  Having the awareness of the course pace of play is mandatory. 
Procedure:
o	Unlock both entry doors from the outside of the golf shop.
o	Turn on all light switches located in the Director of Golf’s office.
o	Turn on all office lights including the grip room.
o	Turn on lights for both sunglasses display.
o	Turn on & log in to both computers on the shop counter.
o	Turn on the following applications on both computers and log-in
	Northstar RPOS
	GPS Cart Tracking Application
	Golf Genius Golf Shop
	Golf Genius Tournament Software
o	Communicate with Superintendent or his Assistant, to get an update on course conditions, and any happenings on the course that may affect play. 
o	Ensure the bag room has one radio, and a copy of the tee sheet. 
o	Communicate with the bag room team on any events that may be taking place on the golf course and ask them if they need anything before the day begins. 
o	Release the DND (Do Not Disturb) on both counter phones.
o	Check all voicemails on golf shop phone & follow up accordingly.
o	Make sure there are copies of the tee sheet for the Bag Room, Kiosk, Front Counter, and Food & Beverage (3 Copies). 
o	Turn on the TVs outside the golf shop and display current and upcoming flyers.
o	Turn on the TV inside the golf shop – default to channel 218 (Golf Channel)
o	Turn on the Outside sound system and start playing music.
o	Check the outdoors seating by 18th Green for cushions and clear out any trash near the area.
o	Count the cash register and make sure we’re starting with $300 bank.
o	Notify your manager if you need more change.
o	Restock gloves, golf balls.
o	Fold and fluff shirts around the golf shop
o	Wipe down the counter with sanitizer wipe.

Oakmont Country Club
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
(Placing Special Order – Golf Shop Golf Genius (GSGG))
Original Date of Issue:  	7/17/2022
Created by:	Edward Kim
Approved by:	Jonathan Goglia

Background: This will cover every step on Golf Shop Special Order Procedure

Purpose: To provide instruction on how to properly order special order in the Golf Shop 

Procedure:
o	Collect detailed information about the product from the Member placing the order.
o	Log into golfshop.golfgenius.com with your personal credentials.
o	Click on ‘New Special Order’ button located bottom left of the Special Orders – Dashboard.
o	Follow the prompt provided by golf genius and input as much detailed information as possible.
o	Click on ‘Save and Order Now’ button to finalize the order
o	Choose one of the following order options
o	B2B Website
	If the manufacturer uses RepSpark, GSGG will direct you to the B2B website to send in your order. 
o	Phone
	If the order has already been placed directly to the manufacturer, either through email, demo day, or headquarters. Choose this option to progress through with the order. THIS DOES NOT DOUBLE YOUR ORDER
o	Email
	This option will send an email to the rep in file with all the detailed information inputted in the previous prompt. This method will be best used when ordering through golf genius when the manufacturer doesn’t use RepSpark B2B.
o	When the order is complete it will be moved over tot the ‘ORDERS PLACED’ column
Oakmont Country Club
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
(Kiosk)
Original Date of Issue:  	7/16/2022
Created by:	Edward Kim
Approved by:	Jonathan Goglia

Background: This will cover every step on Kiosk operating procedure

Purpose: To provide instruction on how to properly open, operate & close the Kiosk

Procedure:
o	Key items from Golf Shop
o	Kiosk Key
o	Laptop
o	Mouse
o	Tee Sheet on clipboard
o	Open the Kiosk and turn on the laptop
o	Log-in to Northstar tee sheet
o	Log-in to the GPS website www.tekgps.net
o	Check and restock all amenities on the first tee
o	Wooden/plastic/short tees
o	Ball markers
o	Divot tools
o	Men/Women scorecards
o	Ask the bag room staff to fill up the following if not done so already
o	Water for towels
o	Sand bottles
o	Greet all players on the tee sheet as they are preparing to tee off for their schedule tee time
o	Assign the resource tab in the tee time quick view to the corresponding method of play
o	Cart / Cart Walk / Pushcart / Walk
o	Write down the cart number on the tee sheet, p/c for pushcart, w for walking next to the player name
It is the staff’s responsibility to track the method of play for each group, if any groups are missed, correct the missed information by finding the group on hole 1 and come back to the Kiosk
o	Lock the Kiosk and bring back all the key items back to the golf shop
Oakmont Country Club
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
(Marshalling)
Original Date of Issue:  	12/16/2022
Created by:	Edward Kim
Approved by:	Jonathan Goglia

Background: This will cover every step on Pace of Play operational procedure

Purpose: To provide instruction on how to properly regulate & post pace of play violations

Procedure:
o	All Staff must be always aware of pace of play by looking at the GPS, checking to see who’s on hole 9, logging turn times and finish times and/or as a designated marshal)
Marshal Responsibility
o	Marshal’s goal is to monitor & regulate the flow of traffic on course and to prevent any foreseeable delay throughout the day. We do this by making sure every group keeps up with the group ahead.
o	Make sure to double check on each group with names & transportation method.
o	Before making assumptions (Members only see what they can see from their position) double check the cause of the backup. Find the group directly causing the pace of play violation.
1st Interaction
o	When a group is more than 1 and a half shots behind the group in front, inform the whole group that they are out of position. In case of guests in the group, please inform the Member only.
o	State the following to the group “Gentlemen/Ladies, your group has fallen behind position. With the current pace, you will receive a pace of play violation letter. What can I do to help you get back into position?”
2nd Interaction
o	If the group is making good progress and closer to the group ahead of them, inform the group that they are doing better but still behind position.
o	If the group is not able to make up grounds and are still behind or falling more behind, assign a professional staff to stay with the group to help with the following for 2-3 holes
o	Spot tee shots
o	Rake bunkers
o	Tend to the flag
o	Explain “Ready Golf” and direct players to prepare for their turn
o	Consistently check the group’s pace and position, the professional staff may leave the group once the group has improved their position.


3rd Interaction
o	If the group is back in position, thank them for their efforts and their positive response.
o	If the group has fallen behind position again, we can assign a professional staff once again unless they are on hole 17 or 18.
o	In any case a group doesn’t improve their position, inform the group that they will be getting a pace of play violation letter.
o	When the group in question finished behind pace of play, log the violation using the template below


Date:
Start tee time: 
Finish: 
Pace: 

Encounters:



On Course Measures:



Finish time:

Players: 



PLEASE EMAIL THE INFORMATION ABOVE TO THE FOLLOWING
Pam White - whitep@oakmontcc.com
Craig Cliver – cliverc@oakmontcc.com
Jonathan Goglia – gogliaj@oakmontcc.com
Edward Kim – kime@oakmontcc.com


KEY TOOLS FOR MARSHALS
•	Raguzi Sheet (pace of play time sheet)
•	Turn & Finish times recorded by Golf Shop & Kiosk
•	Hourly positions to remember
o	1st hour – 5th green
o	2nd hour – 10th tee
o	3rd hour – 14th fairway
o	4th hour – 18th green finished

Oakmont Country Club
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
(Receiving Packages)
Original Date of Issue:  	7/19/2022
Created by:	Edward Kim
Approved by:	Jonathan Goglia

Background: This will cover every step on Receiving Packages Procedure

Purpose: To provide instruction on how to properly receive packages

Procedure:
o	Any packages or boxes that arrive, check the sender.
o	If the packages were addressed to other departments, set it aside and contact them via phone call or email.
o	All packages that’s addressed to golf shop, check PO# or Ref to see if there’s a Tag Name assigned to the packages.
o	There are three possible types of order we receive, 1. Stock orders 2. Special Orders, 3. Tournament related orders
o	Stock Orders
o	Communicate with the Golf Shop Manager and find out if the stock order should be opened immediately. Most often than not, the product needs to be received through Northstar before displaying it on the floor
o	If you are trained to receive the order through Northstar, receive the product, create SKUs and tag, then display the product on the floor.
o	Special Orders
o	Open all special order immediately. Log into golf shop golf genius(GSGG) and find the corresponding order under ‘Special Orders – Dashboard’ 
o	Click next arrow to process the order through to delivered column. This will automatically send an email to the member notifying that the order arrived.
o	Create club labels if the order is a golf club and fill out the special order tag and tape it on to the product.
o	If the member has a locker/bag stall, make sure the product finds their locker/bag stall.
	Place the product in the Assistant Professionals’ office
o	Tournament related order
o	Open the box but keep the products in the box.
o	Send an email to notify the following of the product received.
	Golf Shop Manager, Director of Golf, Head Golf Professional
